#summary End-user Frequently Asked Questions
#labels Featured

= Emerson User FAQ =

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

== What are the System Requirements for running Emerson? ==
You will need Java 5 or later. If its not already installed, you typically want to visit [http://www.java.com java.com] to download Java.

You also need an operating system to install Java on. Windows, Mac OS X or Linux should do the trick. Solaris is not yet tested.

Linux users: OpenJDK _should_ work, but has not been extensively tested.

Linux users: there are known issues with Emerson and PulseAudio, use ALSA audio drivers.

== What e-text formats does Emerson support? ==
At the time of writing, Emerson supports the [http://www.idpf.org Epub] format.

== What kinds of DTBs does Emerson support? ==
First regarding DAISY support: Emerson is an *audio* DTB player. At the time of writing, it does not support text-only DTBs.

The Daisy formats supported at the time of writing is Daisy 2.02 and Daisy 3 version 2005 (formally ANSI/NISO Z3986-2005).

== What audio formats does Emerson support? ==
At the time of writing, Emerson supports only *MP3* encoded DTBs. Neither WAV nor AAC is supported.

== Does Emerson support Time Scale Modification (speed up and slow down) for DAISY DTBs? ==
No it does not. For players (free and commercial) that supports this feature visit [http://www.daisy.org/tools the daisy.org tools page].

== Can Emerson play Daisy text books, like those distributed by Bookshare? ==
No. Please see *What kinds of DTBs does Emerson support?*  above.

== Does Emerson support DRM (encrypted) content? ==
Nope.